README.rst, before:

pyScss, a Scss compiler for Python
==================================
:Author:
	German M. Bravo (Kronuz) <german.mb@gmail.com>

About
=====
pyScss compiles Scss (Sass), a superset of CSS that is more powerful, elegant
and easier to maintain than plain-vanilla CSS. The library acts as a CSS source
code preprocesor which allows you to use variables, nested rules, mixins, and
have inheritance of rules, all with a CSS-compatible syntax which the
preprocessor then compiles to standard CSS.

Scss, as an extension of CSS, helps keep large stylesheets well-organized. It
borrows concepts and functionality from projects such as OOCSS and other similar
frameworks like as Sass. It's build on top of the original PHP xCSS codebase
structure but it's been completely rewritten, many bugs have been fixed and it
has been extensively extended to support almost the full range of Sass' Scss
syntax and functionality.

Support
========
pyScss is fully compatible with SCSS (Sass) 3.2 ...it has:

	* **Compass**: Compass 0.11 Support
	* **Nested rules**
	* **Keyword arguments**
	* **Mixins**: `@mixin`, `@include`
	* **Functions**: `@function`, `@return`
	* **Inheritance**: `@extend`
	* **Conditions**: `@if`, `@else if`, `@else`
	* **Loops**: `@for`, `@each`
	* **Variables**: `$`, `@variables`, `@vars`
	* **Sprites**: `sprite-map()`, `sprite()`, `sprite-position()`, `sprite-url()`, ...
	* **Images**: `image-url()`, `image-width()`, `image-height()`, ...
	* **Embedded (inline) images**: `inline-image()`
	* **Colors handling**: `adjust-color()`, `scale-color()`, `opacify()`/`transparentize()`, `lighten()`/`darken()`, `mix()`, ...
	* **Math functions**: `sin()`, `cos()`, `tan()`, `round()`, `ceil()`, `floor()`, `pi()`, ...
	* **CSS Compression**: `@option compress:yes;`

Requirements
============
	* python >= 2.5

Installation
============
pyScss should be installed using pip or setuptools::

	pip install pyScss

	easy_install pyScss

Usage
=====
Usage example::

	from scss import Scss
	css = Scss()
	css.compile("a { color: red + green; }")

Or compile from the command line::

	python scss.py < file.scss

Interactive mode::

	python scss.py --interactive

Examples
========
#. **Nested Rules**
	Example::

		@option compress: no;
		.selector {
		    a {
		        display: block;
		    }
		        strong {
		        color: blue;
		    }
		}

	...produces::

		.selector a {
		    display: block;
		}
		.selector strong {
		    color: #00f;
		}

#. **Variables**
	Example::

		@option compress: no;
		$main-color: #ce4dd6;
		$style: solid;
		$side: bottom;
		#navbar {
		    border-#{$side}: {
		        color: $main-color;
		        style: $style;
		    }
		}

	...produces::

		#navbar {
		    border-bottom-color: #ce4dd6;
		    border-bottom-style: solid;
		}

#. **Mixins**
	Example::

		@option compress: no;
		@mixin rounded($side, $radius: 10px) {
		    border-#{$side}-radius: $radius;
		    -moz-border-radius-#{$side}: $radius;
		    -webkit-border-#{$side}-radius: $radius;
		}
		#navbar li { @include rounded(top); }
		#footer { @include rounded(top, 5px); }
		#sidebar { @include rounded(left, 8px); }

	...produces::

		#navbar li {
		    border-top-radius: 10px;
		    -moz-border-radius-top: 10px;
		    -webkit-border-top-radius: 10px;
		}
		#footer {
		    border-top-radius: 5px;
		    -moz-border-radius-top: 5px;
		    -webkit-border-top-radius: 5px;
		}
		#sidebar {
		    border-left-radius: 8px;
		    -moz-border-radius-left: 8px;
		    -webkit-border-left-radius: 8px;
		}

#. **Extend** (using `@extend`)
	Example::

		@option compress: no;
		.error {
		    border: 1px #f00;
		    background-color: #fdd;
		}
		.error.intrusion {
		    background-image: url("/image/hacked.png");
		}
		.seriousError {
		    @extend .error;
		    border-width: 3px;
		}

	...produces::

		.error,
		.seriousError {
		    border: 1px red;
		    background-color: #fdd;
		}
		.error.intrusion,
		.seriousError.intrusion {
		    background-image: url("/image/hacked.png");
		}
		.seriousError {
		    border-width: 3px;
		}

#. **Sprites** (using `sprite-map()`)
	Example::

		@option compress: no;
		$icons: sprite-map("sociable/*.png"); // contains sociable/facebook.png among others.
		div {
		    background: $icons;
		}
		@each $icon in sprites($icons) {
		    div .#{$icon} {
		        width: image-width(sprite-file($icons, $icon));
		        height: image-height(sprite-file($icons, $icon));
		        background-position: sprite-position($icons, $icon);
		    }
		}

	...generates a new sprite file and produces something like::

		div {
		    background: url("/static/assets/u8Y7yEQL0UffAVw5rX7yhw.png?_=1298240989") 0px 0px no-repeat;
		}
		div .facebook {
		    width: 32px;
		    height: 32px;
		    background-position: 0px 0px;
		}
		div .twitter {
		    width: 32px;
		    height: 32px;
		    background-position: 0px -32px;
		}
		...

#. **Interactive mode**
	Example::

		$ python scss.py --interactive
		>>> @import "compass/css3"
		>>> show()
		['functions', 'mixins', 'options', 'vars']
		>>> show(mixins)
		['apply-origin',
		 'apply-transform',
		 ...
		 'transparent']
		>>> show(mixins, transparent)
		@mixin transparent() {
		    @include opacity(0);
		}
		>>> 1px + 5px
		6px
		>>> _

Sass Sassy CSS
==============
pyScss is a Scss (Sass) implementation for Python.
Currently it implements @mixin, @include, @if, @else, @for, and @import... it
also implements many of the Sass functions including color functions like
hsla(), hsl(), darken(), lighten(), mix(), opacify(), transparentize(),
saturate(), desaturate(), etc.) as well as sprite-map(), sprite-file(),
image-width(), image-height() and the others.

In the file `scss.py`, by the top, you can configure the LOAD_PATHS to point to
your Sass frameworks path (I have `sass/frameworks/compass/*.scss` and
`sass/framework/blueprint/*.scss` files in my project directory:
`/usr/local/www/project/`, where `scss.py` lives, so it defaults to use the
`sass/framework/` path, relative to the `scss.py` file) or configure using the
command line `--load-path` option, see `python scss.py --help`.

I have succesfully compiled some Compass using `python scss.py < myfile.css` the
following `myfile.css`::

	@option compress: no;

	$blueprint-grid-columns : 24;
	$blueprint-grid-width   : 30px;
	$blueprint-grid-margin  : 10px;
	$font-color             : #333;

	@import "compass/reset";
	@import "compass/utilities";
	@import "blueprint";

	// Stuff goes here...

Benchmarks
==========
pyScss has been optimized for speed. Compiling **Compass 0.11.beta.2**
(`compass/doc-src/content/stylesheets/screen.scss`)

...using **Sass 3.1.0.alpha.221**::

	Compilation took 2.683s (w/o cache)
	Compilation took 1.35s  (cached)

...using **pyScss 1.0 beta**::

	Compilation took 0.614s

Bug tracker
===========
If you have any suggestions, bug reports or annoyances please report them to the
issue tracker at http://github.com/Kronuz/pyScss/issues


Contributing
============
Development of pyScss happens at github: https://github.com/Kronuz/pyScss

License
=======
MIT License. See *LICENSE* for details.
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

Copyright
=========
Copyright (c) 2011 German M. Bravo (Kronuz)
*Bits of code in pyScss come from various projects:*

Compass:
	(c) 2009 Christopher M. Eppstein
	http://compass-style.org/
Sass:
	(c) 2006-2009 Hampton Catlin and Nathan Weizenbaum
	http://sass-lang.com/
xCSS:
	(c) 2010 Anton Pawlik
	http://xcss.antpaw.org/docs/

Commit message:

Added feature: custom pyScss settings.

README.rst, after:

pyScss, a Scss compiler for Python
==================================
:Author:
	German M. Bravo (Kronuz) <german.mb@gmail.com>

About
=====
pyScss compiles Scss (Sass), a superset of CSS that is more powerful, elegant
and easier to maintain than plain-vanilla CSS. The library acts as a CSS source
code preprocesor which allows you to use variables, nested rules, mixins, and
have inheritance of rules, all with a CSS-compatible syntax which the
preprocessor then compiles to standard CSS.

Scss, as an extension of CSS, helps keep large stylesheets well-organized. It
borrows concepts and functionality from projects such as OOCSS and other similar
frameworks like as Sass. It's build on top of the original PHP xCSS codebase
structure but it's been completely rewritten, many bugs have been fixed and it
has been extensively extended to support almost the full range of Sass' Scss
syntax and functionality.

Support
========
pyScss is fully compatible with SCSS (Sass) 3.2 ...it has:

	* **Compass**: Compass 0.11 Support
	* **Nested rules**
	* **Keyword arguments**
	* **Mixins**: `@mixin`, `@include`
	* **Functions**: `@function`, `@return`
	* **Inheritance**: `@extend`
	* **Conditions**: `@if`, `@else if`, `@else`
	* **Loops**: `@for`, `@each`
	* **Variables**: `$`, `@variables`, `@vars`
	* **Sprites**: `sprite-map()`, `sprite()`, `sprite-position()`, `sprite-url()`, ...
	* **Images**: `image-url()`, `image-width()`, `image-height()`, ...
	* **Embedded (inline) images**: `inline-image()`
	* **Colors handling**: `adjust-color()`, `scale-color()`, `opacify()`/`transparentize()`, `lighten()`/`darken()`, `mix()`, ...
	* **Math functions**: `sin()`, `cos()`, `tan()`, `round()`, `ceil()`, `floor()`, `pi()`, ...
	* **CSS Compression**: `@option compress:yes;`

Requirements
============
	* python >= 2.5

Installation
============
pyScss should be installed using pip or setuptools::

	pip install pyScss

	easy_install pyScss

Usage
=====
Usage example::

	from scss import Scss
	css = Scss()
	css.compile("a { color: red + green; }")

Or compile from the command line::

	python scss.py < file.scss

Interactive mode::

	python scss.py --interactive

You can customize some settings, check out example_settings.py for a complete example:

    # Create a file named "scss_settings.py" within your pyScss script
    # Name is important, or it won't work

    # Let's say we want to customize the STATIC_URL and ASSETS_URL
    # These two require to begin with a "/" character.
    STATIC_URL = "/my_cool_static/"
    ASSETS_URL = STATIC_URL + "/my_assetz/"

    # Done!

Examples
========
#. **Nested Rules**
	Example::

		@option compress: no;
		.selector {
		    a {
		        display: block;
		    }
		        strong {
		        color: blue;
		    }
		}

	...produces::

		.selector a {
		    display: block;
		}
		.selector strong {
		    color: #00f;
		}

#. **Variables**
	Example::

		@option compress: no;
		$main-color: #ce4dd6;
		$style: solid;
		$side: bottom;
		#navbar {
		    border-#{$side}: {
		        color: $main-color;
		        style: $style;
		    }
		}

	...produces::

		#navbar {
		    border-bottom-color: #ce4dd6;
		    border-bottom-style: solid;
		}

#. **Mixins**
	Example::

		@option compress: no;
		@mixin rounded($side, $radius: 10px) {
		    border-#{$side}-radius: $radius;
		    -moz-border-radius-#{$side}: $radius;
		    -webkit-border-#{$side}-radius: $radius;
		}
		#navbar li { @include rounded(top); }
		#footer { @include rounded(top, 5px); }
		#sidebar { @include rounded(left, 8px); }

	...produces::

		#navbar li {
		    border-top-radius: 10px;
		    -moz-border-radius-top: 10px;
		    -webkit-border-top-radius: 10px;
		}
		#footer {
		    border-top-radius: 5px;
		    -moz-border-radius-top: 5px;
		    -webkit-border-top-radius: 5px;
		}
		#sidebar {
		    border-left-radius: 8px;
		    -moz-border-radius-left: 8px;
		    -webkit-border-left-radius: 8px;
		}

#. **Extend** (using `@extend`)
	Example::

		@option compress: no;
		.error {
		    border: 1px #f00;
		    background-color: #fdd;
		}
		.error.intrusion {
		    background-image: url("/image/hacked.png");
		}
		.seriousError {
		    @extend .error;
		    border-width: 3px;
		}

	...produces::

		.error,
		.seriousError {
		    border: 1px red;
		    background-color: #fdd;
		}
		.error.intrusion,
		.seriousError.intrusion {
		    background-image: url("/image/hacked.png");
		}
		.seriousError {
		    border-width: 3px;
		}

#. **Sprites** (using `sprite-map()`)
	Example::

		@option compress: no;
		$icons: sprite-map("sociable/*.png"); // contains sociable/facebook.png among others.
		div {
		    background: $icons;
		}
		@each $icon in sprites($icons) {
		    div .#{$icon} {
		        width: image-width(sprite-file($icons, $icon));
		        height: image-height(sprite-file($icons, $icon));
		        background-position: sprite-position($icons, $icon);
		    }
		}

	...generates a new sprite file and produces something like::

		div {
		    background: url("/static/assets/u8Y7yEQL0UffAVw5rX7yhw.png?_=1298240989") 0px 0px no-repeat;
		}
		div .facebook {
		    width: 32px;
		    height: 32px;
		    background-position: 0px 0px;
		}
		div .twitter {
		    width: 32px;
		    height: 32px;
		    background-position: 0px -32px;
		}
		...

#. **Interactive mode**
	Example::

		$ python scss.py --interactive
		>>> @import "compass/css3"
		>>> show()
		['functions', 'mixins', 'options', 'vars']
		>>> show(mixins)
		['apply-origin',
		 'apply-transform',
		 ...
		 'transparent']
		>>> show(mixins, transparent)
		@mixin transparent() {
		    @include opacity(0);
		}
		>>> 1px + 5px
		6px
		>>> _

Sass Sassy CSS
==============
pyScss is a Scss (Sass) implementation for Python.
Currently it implements @mixin, @include, @if, @else, @for, and @import... it
also implements many of the Sass functions including color functions like
hsla(), hsl(), darken(), lighten(), mix(), opacify(), transparentize(),
saturate(), desaturate(), etc.) as well as sprite-map(), sprite-file(),
image-width(), image-height() and the others.

In the file `scss.py`, by the top, you can configure the LOAD_PATHS to point to
your Sass frameworks path (I have `sass/frameworks/compass/*.scss` and
`sass/framework/blueprint/*.scss` files in my project directory:
`/usr/local/www/project/`, where `scss.py` lives, so it defaults to use the
`sass/framework/` path, relative to the `scss.py` file) or configure using the
command line `--load-path` option, see `python scss.py --help`.

I have succesfully compiled some Compass using `python scss.py < myfile.css` the
following `myfile.css`::

	@option compress: no;

	$blueprint-grid-columns : 24;
	$blueprint-grid-width   : 30px;
	$blueprint-grid-margin  : 10px;
	$font-color             : #333;

	@import "compass/reset";
	@import "compass/utilities";
	@import "blueprint";

	// Stuff goes here...

Benchmarks
==========
pyScss has been optimized for speed. Compiling **Compass 0.11.beta.2**
(`compass/doc-src/content/stylesheets/screen.scss`)

...using **Sass 3.1.0.alpha.221**::

	Compilation took 2.683s (w/o cache)
	Compilation took 1.35s  (cached)

...using **pyScss 1.0 beta**::

	Compilation took 0.614s

Bug tracker
===========
If you have any suggestions, bug reports or annoyances please report them to the
issue tracker at http://github.com/Kronuz/pyScss/issues


Contributing
============
Development of pyScss happens at github: https://github.com/Kronuz/pyScss

License
=======
MIT License. See *LICENSE* for details.
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

Copyright
=========
Copyright (c) 2011 German M. Bravo (Kronuz)
*Bits of code in pyScss come from various projects:*

Compass:
	(c) 2009 Christopher M. Eppstein
	http://compass-style.org/
Sass:
	(c) 2006-2009 Hampton Catlin and Nathan Weizenbaum
	http://sass-lang.com/
xCSS:
	(c) 2010 Anton Pawlik
	http://xcss.antpaw.org/docs/
